feat(curriculum): add workshop python functions (#68279)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/blocks/workshop-kitchen-inventory-tracker/6a3ea8a55317ba7a08e21d5b.md

---
id: 6a3ea8a55317ba7a08e21d5b
title: Step 16
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-16
---

# --description--

Now we can finally answer the question from earlier! Why did the global number of eggs stay at `1`? Because when a function returns a value, it doesn't automatically overwrite your variables. You have to explicitly save that new value!

To update our actual kitchen inventory, we need to overwrite our global `eggs` variable with the new number of eggs returned by our master recipe function.

At the very bottom of your code, call the `make_fried_egg` function and pass `eggs` as the argument. Assign the result of this function call back to the global `eggs` variable.

# --hints--

You should reassign the `eggs` variable to the result of `make_fried_egg(eggs)`.

```js
({
  test: () => assert(

>     runPython(`_Node(_code).find_assignments("eggs")[-1].is_equivalent("make_fried_egg(eggs)")`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    runPython(`_Node(_code).find_assignments("eggs")[-1].is_equivalent("eggs = make_fried_egg(eggs)")`)
```

  )
})
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```py
eggs = 1
flour = 2
sugar = 3

def take_inventory():
    total_items = eggs + flour + sugar
    print(f'The kitchen has {total_items} total items:')
    print(f'- {eggs} eggs')
    print(f'- {flour} flour')
    print(f'- {sugar} sugar')

take_inventory()

def use_eggs(eggs, num_eggs):
    if num_eggs > eggs:
        print('The kitchen does not have enough eggs.')
        return eggs

    print(f'{num_eggs} egg(s) used out of {eggs} available.')
    return eggs - num_eggs

use_eggs(eggs, 1)
print(eggs)
        
def make_fried_egg(eggs):   
    available_eggs = use_eggs(eggs, 1)

>     has_enough_eggs = available_eggs >= eggs  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    has_enough_eggs = available_eggs >= eggs
```

    if has_enough_eggs:
        print('Made a fried egg. Yummy!')

>     else:
>         print('Could not make a fried egg. Not enough eggs!')
> 
>     return available_eggs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    else:
        print('Could not make a fried egg. Not enough eggs!')
    
    return available_eggs
```

---
id: 6a3ea8a55317ba7a08e21d5b
title: Step 16
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-16
---

# --description--

> Now you can finally answer the question from earlier! Why did the global number of eggs stay at `1`? Because when a function returns a value, it doesn't automatically overwrite your variables. You have to explicitly save that new value!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you can finally answer the question from earlier! Why did the global number of eggs stay at `1`? This is because when a function returns a value, it doesn't automatically overwrite your variables. You have to explicitly save that new value!
```

> Now you can finally answer the question from earlier! Why did the global number of eggs stay at `1`? This is because when a function returns a value, it doesn't automatically overwrite your variables. You have to explicitly save that new value!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you can finally answer the question from earlier: why did the global number of eggs stay at `1`? When a function returns a value, it doesn't automatically overwrite your existing variables. You must explicitly save that new value!
```

> You have noticed that you are using `available_eggs` variable in the `make_fried_egg` function, but it is not the same `available_eggs` variable that you defined at the top of your code. The `available_eggs` variable inside the function is a **local variable** that only exists while the function is running. When the function finishes, that local variable disappears and your global `available_eggs` variable remains unchanged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might have noticed that you are using the `available_eggs` variable in the `make_fried_egg` function, but it is not the same `available_eggs` variable that you defined at the top of your code. The `available_eggs` variable inside the function is a **local variable** that only exists while the function is running. When the function finishes, that local variable disappears, and your global `available_eggs` variable remains unchanged.
```

> You might have noticed that you are using the `available_eggs` variable in the `make_fried_egg` function, but it is not the same `available_eggs` variable that you defined at the top of your code. The `available_eggs` variable inside the function is a **local variable** that only exists while the function is running. When the function finishes, that local variable disappears, and your global `available_eggs` variable remains unchanged.

Reviewer 2: Since previous steps already covered name shadowing, this paragraph feels a bit redundant. If you still want to include it, please make it brief.

> To update your actual kitchen inventory, you need to overwrite your global `available_eggs` variable with the new number of eggs returned by your `make_fried_egg` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To update your actual kitchen inventory, overwrite the global `available_eggs` variable with the new number of eggs returned by your `make_fried_egg` function.
```

> At the very bottom of your code, call the `make_fried_egg` function and pass `available_eggs` as the argument. Assign the result of this function call back to the global `available_eggs` variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the very bottom of your code, call the `make_fried_egg` function, passing `available_eggs` as the argument, and assign the result back to the global `available_eggs` variable.
```
